Node IDs

The purpose of Node IDs is to uniquely identify each node in a project.

Nodes IDs are three characters long and incorporate all ten digits (0 - 9) and all letters a - z, resulting in over 46,000 possible unique identifiers per project.

Node IDs are generated automatically by Urtext; every newly created node is assigned an available unused ID as a metadata entry:

	id::01q; <- This is not just an example; it specifies the ID of this node.

Note that the node ID entry can appear anywhere in a node. If you want to keep node ID's out of the way, such as at the end or beginning of each node, or separate from the rest of your metadata, this will not affect their functionality.

{  Trailing Node IDs

	To keep IDs even more out of sight, they can also be specified as the last three characters of a node, without a key or a double-colon syntax. Syntax highlighting will then shade them to appear unobtrusive. This convention is used throughout most of this documentation. This only works for nodes wrapped in brackets, not for compact or file nodes.

	Note that trailing node IDs must be preceded by a space.  

	In Sublime Text, press Ctrl-Shift-P to create a new inline node using this convention.	xo9}

IDs have no special meaning, do not represent the order of node creation within a project, and are not related to or "hashed from" node content. They are assigned in random order so the probability of accidentally creating two nodes with the same ID is minimal when using the project across many devices that may not always be in sync.

When an ID is deleted from a project, new nodes are later assigned to vacant node IDs.

{ Inserting a Node ID manually

	Control-Shift-I will insert a new and unused node anywhere in the project, in case you delete one or want to insert one manually.  04s}

Node IDs can also be user-created arbitrarily if for some reason you want to. If you do this, note that node IDs are case-insensitive.

If more than one Node ID appears in a node, only the first one is used as the Node's ID; the rest are treated (indexed) as regular metadata.

{ 	Duplicate Node IDs

	If two nodes end up with the same ID, only one (the first one found) will be assigned the ID. The entire second file containing the node with the duplicate ID will contain a warning message. See | Errors and Warnings >bpk

	To correct the problem, it is necessary to manually change the duplicate ID to a new one. To ensure the corrected node ID is unique, it is recommended to use control-shift-I for this (as described above), after the rest of the project is compiled.
	
bzv}

| Generating a node ID manually >>rfp


Timestamp::<Thu., Jul. 04, 2019, 06:46 AM>
tags::